# C_Sharp
Let's learn deeply C# language and their frameworks together...

## ADO.NET
- Developers hate working with DataSets and DataReaders.
- .NET platform defines a number of namespaces that allow you to interact with relational database systems. Collectively speaking, these namespaces are known as ADO.NET.
- **ORM** stands for Object-Relational Mapper which is to map an object with a relational world. As the name suggests it builds a relation / maps objects (model) to database objects(tables).
- **ADO.NET** was the traditional way to connect your application to a database & gave the developer entire control over the database operations whereas ORM is built on top of ADO.NET and uses ADO.NET implicitly.
- In short using an ORM like NHibernate, *Entity Framework* makes life simpler where mapping of objects(models) is taken care of internally by the ORM.
- When you use an ORM not everything is in your hands since all of the queries are generated by the ORM itself. Now we don't know whether those queries are optimized or not.

In scenarios where performance of your application is a primary concern & absolutely critical OR in scenarios where you know that your application will grow huge in mere future then it is advisable to use ADO.NET rather than Entity Framework because it makes your application heavy.

- The solution to this was Micro ORM's like Dapper, BLToolkit. These provide the esssence of what developers want - an easy way to map Database operations to strongly typed classes.
- LINQ support in some makes it even better.But the main advantage of some of these Micro-ORMs is its raw speed.

### Words of Wisdom:
- Dapper just does mapping but you need to code a lot , EF does much more on the top of it and not just mapping. So EF will be slow.
- I can also say that pure ADO.NET is faster than Dapper , OLEDB is faster than ADO.NET and ODBC can be faster than OLEDB.
So if I am serious about performance I would probably avoid any ORM.

**(ODBC>OLEDB>ADO.NET>Dapper>Entity Framework)**

-  *Dapper* is heaven for those who still like to work with **RAW Queries rather than LINQ with Entity Framework Core**.


## MVC


## WEB API